README.md, before:

# Kids Python Cozy Camp 🐍✨

Welcome, curious coder! This is a warm, friendly place to learn Python step by step — with tiny projects, gentle explanations, and lots of encouragement. Whether you’re 7 or 77, bring your imagination and we’ll bring the snacks (metaphorical… but cookies are encouraged).

## Quick start (Windows) ⏱️

Use these steps to run your very first Python program in a few minutes.

1) Check that Python is installed

```bat
py --version
```

If you see a version like “Python 3.11.x”, you’re set. If not, download Python from https://www.python.org/downloads/ (check “Add Python to PATH” during install) and try again.

2) Open this folder in VS Code

- Start VS Code, then File > Open Folder… and choose this `Kids_Python` folder.
- Open a new terminal: Terminal > New Terminal (this uses cmd.exe on Windows).

3) Make your first program

- In VS Code, create a new file named `hello.py` and paste this:

```python
print("Hello, coder! 🐍💖")
print("What’s your name?")
name = input("> ")
print("Nice to meet you, " + name + "! Let’s make something awesome together.")
```

4) Run it

```bat
py hello.py
```

You should see a friendly greeting and a prompt for your name. High five!

## What we’ll learn 🌈

- Talking to the computer with `print` and `input`
- Variables (your treasure boxes)
- Decisions with `if`/`else` (choose-your-own-adventure)
- Loops (campfire stories that repeat)
- Lists and dictionaries (snack trays and labeled backpacks)
- Functions (your own magic spells)
- Turtle graphics and tiny games (art + logic!)

## Cozy learning path 🗺️

We’ll add lessons as simple folders you can open and run. A likely path:

1. Hello, Python — prints and inputs
2. Treasure Boxes — variables and types
3. Choices — `if`, `elif`, `else`
4. Campfire Loops — `for` and `while`
5. Snack Trays — lists and dictionaries
6. Magic Spells — functions and parameters
7. Turtle Art — draw shapes and patterns
8. Mini Games — guess-the-number, rock-paper-scissors

Each lesson keeps code short, colorful, and fun.

## Mini‑project ideas 🎯

- Compliment generator: make the computer say something kind
- Secret handshake: ask a password and unlock a message
- Dice roller: random numbers and lucky streaks
- Guess‑the‑number: fewer tries = more points
- Turtle art: draw a house, a flower, or a spiral rainbow

## How to run any lesson ▶️

In the terminal, move into a lesson folder (once they appear) and run the file:

```bat
cd lessons\01_hello
py main.py
```

Note: Many projects work with standard Python only. Turtle graphics come with Python, no extra install needed.

## Grown‑up guide (parents & mentors) 🧭

- Keep sessions short (20–30 minutes) and end on a win.
- Let kids “drive” the keyboard; you be the navigator.
- Celebrate bugs! They’re clues, not failures.
- Ask “What do you think will happen?” before running.
- Pair programming works wonders: take turns typing lines.

## Troubleshooting 🧩

- “'py' is not recognized” → Try `python --version` and run with `python hello.py`.
- Weird characters (like emojis) → Save file as UTF‑8 (VS Code does this by default).
- Permission or access errors → Work in a folder you own (like Documents or this repo).
- Program won’t stop → Press Ctrl+C in the terminal.
- Nothing shows up? Make sure you saved the file and ran it from the correct folder.

## Contributing 💌

Ideas for gentle lessons? Typos to fix? Open a pull request or start a discussion with your idea. Keep examples short, kind, and age‑friendly.

## License 📜

This project is open source. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

---

Snuggle up with your keyboard, take a deep breath, and let’s make something delightful. You’ve got this. 🌟

Commit message:

Add Code of Conduct and reference in README
Introduced a kid-friendly Code of Conduct adapted from the Contributor Covenant to promote a safe and welcoming environment. Updated README to reference the new Code of Conduct and encourage participants to uphold it.

README.md, after:

# Kids Python Cozy Camp 🐍✨

Welcome, curious coder! This is a warm, friendly place to learn Python step by step — with tiny projects, gentle explanations, and lots of encouragement. Whether you’re 7 or 77, bring your imagination and we’ll bring the snacks (metaphorical… but cookies are encouraged).

## Quick start (Windows) ⏱️

Use these steps to run your very first Python program in a few minutes.

1) Check that Python is installed

```bat
py --version
```

If you see a version like “Python 3.11.x”, you’re set. If not, download Python from https://www.python.org/downloads/ (check “Add Python to PATH” during install) and try again.

2) Open this folder in VS Code

- Start VS Code, then File > Open Folder… and choose this `Kids_Python` folder.
- Open a new terminal: Terminal > New Terminal (this uses cmd.exe on Windows).

3) Make your first program

- In VS Code, create a new file named `hello.py` and paste this:

```python
print("Hello, coder! 🐍💖")
print("What’s your name?")
name = input("> ")
print("Nice to meet you, " + name + "! Let’s make something awesome together.")
```

4) Run it

```bat
py hello.py
```

You should see a friendly greeting and a prompt for your name. High five!

## What we’ll learn 🌈

- Talking to the computer with `print` and `input`
- Variables (your treasure boxes)
- Decisions with `if`/`else` (choose-your-own-adventure)
- Loops (campfire stories that repeat)
- Lists and dictionaries (snack trays and labeled backpacks)
- Functions (your own magic spells)
- Turtle graphics and tiny games (art + logic!)

## Cozy learning path 🗺️

We’ll add lessons as simple folders you can open and run. A likely path:

1. Hello, Python — prints and inputs
2. Treasure Boxes — variables and types
3. Choices — `if`, `elif`, `else`
4. Campfire Loops — `for` and `while`
5. Snack Trays — lists and dictionaries
6. Magic Spells — functions and parameters
7. Turtle Art — draw shapes and patterns
8. Mini Games — guess-the-number, rock-paper-scissors

Each lesson keeps code short, colorful, and fun.

## Mini‑project ideas 🎯

- Compliment generator: make the computer say something kind
- Secret handshake: ask a password and unlock a message
- Dice roller: random numbers and lucky streaks
- Guess‑the‑number: fewer tries = more points
- Turtle art: draw a house, a flower, or a spiral rainbow

## How to run any lesson ▶️

In the terminal, move into a lesson folder (once they appear) and run the file:

```bat
cd lessons\01_hello
py main.py
```

Note: Many projects work with standard Python only. Turtle graphics come with Python, no extra install needed.

## Grown‑up guide (parents & mentors) 🧭

- Keep sessions short (20–30 minutes) and end on a win.
- Let kids “drive” the keyboard; you be the navigator.
- Celebrate bugs! They’re clues, not failures.
- Ask “What do you think will happen?” before running.
- Pair programming works wonders: take turns typing lines.

## Troubleshooting 🧩

- “'py' is not recognized” → Try `python --version` and run with `python hello.py`.
- Weird characters (like emojis) → Save file as UTF‑8 (VS Code does this by default).
- Permission or access errors → Work in a folder you own (like Documents or this repo).
- Program won’t stop → Press Ctrl+C in the terminal.
- Nothing shows up? Make sure you saved the file and ran it from the correct folder.

## Contributing 💌

Ideas for gentle lessons? Typos to fix? Open a pull request or start a discussion with your idea. Keep examples short, kind, and age‑friendly.

This project follows a friendly Code of Conduct. By participating, you agree to uphold it. Please read `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.

## License 📜

This project is open source. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

---

Snuggle up with your keyboard, take a deep breath, and let’s make something delightful. You’ve got this. 🌟
